# Addressing Recent Global Issues with Taylor Rules Using International Data: Measuring R* and the Significance of the Real Exchange Rate

My senior capstone project. The full paper can be found in the main branch PDF; however, the executive summary is presented below:

Recent shifts in the global economy necessitate precise estimation of the natural interest rate (R*) given the importance of R* for determining monetary policy. This paper aims to construct effective Taylor Rules using US and international data to identify the most suitable value of R* for advanced economies. The firm aim is to determine the optimal R* value, which is achieved by inputting data from the United States, United Kingdom, European Union, and Japan into the Taylor Rule to extrapolate R* values over time. The second aim is to improve global applicability of the Taylor Rule by considering the significance of adding the real exchange rate. We employ simple and rolling regressions to gather estimates of R* and assess the significance of the real exchange rate. Our approach involves running these regressions in non-inertial and inertial settings upon gathering data on key economic indicators, such as interest rates, inflation, output gap, and exchange rates. We find that R* should be 2% for advanced economies (particularly the US, UK, and the EU) but countries facing deep-rooted economic problems (such as Japan) should adopt a lower R* value of 0.5%. We also find that adding the real exchange rate produces significant results for the UK and Japan thus suggesting it is a useful modification to the Taylor Rule. The international variances in R* could therefore be addressed using a modified version of the Taylor Rule which includes the real exchange rate. Although our paper faces limitations in data availability, our alternative uses of data as well as comprehensive methodology lends credibility to our results. Based on our findings, we recommend following the Taylor Rule to ensure policy stability, emphasizing the importance of maintaining a 2% inflation target. We also recommend incorporating the real exchange rate in the Taylor Rule when determining monetary policy as this holds promise for achieving improved global economic outcomes.
